Small (incomplete) Linux howto for Acadia
Daniel Lemire, Ph.D. 
(version 1.2 -- April 12th 2002)

Disclaimer: some of these tricks are not really great ideas. Don't
show them to user support or they may scream! Seriously, this howto
has most certainly not been approved by Acadia University. Use at
your own risks.

0. Introduction

Whenever I write "mypass" and "myuser", please replace it by your 
username or password. My username at acadia is "dlemire" or 
"dlemire.academic.acadia" (the latter being necessary when
 connecting to axe).

This howto was written with RedHat in mind. It is assumed that
you've done the reasonable things: put the CD in the Desktop PC,
clicked on "install" and chosen the reasonable options. As for
myself, I always install Linux with everything enabled and
low security settings.

Warning: trying this on a laptop is risky business. Linux works
better on Desktop because the hardware is more standard, generic.


1. Getting your network working

RedHat comes with a tool called "Network Configurator" which you will
find easily. I've entered the following...

Under "Names"

Hostname: dlemire.acadiau.ca
Domain: acadiau.ca

Nameservers: 131.162.2.90 and 131.162.2.45

Under "Hosts"

I put one host there, IP = 127.0.0.1, Name = dlemire.acadiau.ca,
Nicknames ="dlemire localhost"

Under "interfaces"

Interface eth0, IP 131.162.174.31 (I chose this arbitrarily because DHCP
wasn't working for me!), proto = static, atboot = yes and it is active.
You might want to make sure that your netmask is set to 255.255.248.0.

Under "routing"

Default gateway : 131.162.168.1

Default gateway device: eth0


That's all. If you choose an arbitrary IP (please not mine), it should work.
It is not very ethical however! It won't work with all IPs so you need to
choose one "close" to one you know works. You can use "winipcfg"
under Windows to find out what your IP is.

Troubleshooting: try to ping some known IPs. For example, if winipcfg
on your laptop says that your laptop IP is 111.111.111.111, go to the
desktop and type "ping 111.111.111.111".

2. Getting novell working.

That's actually very easy. Logon as root ("su").

Make sure eth0 is running...

 /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up

Configure Novell...

 /sbin/ipx_configure --auto_interface=on --auto_primary=on

If you don't have ipx_configure , then you have to install them
from RPMs (they are are on you cd). You need at least
ipxutils (do rpm -Uvh ipxutils* on the RedHat CD). You 
might also need ncpfs-2.2.0.18-3.

Create some convenient directories (mkdir /mnt/plato, mkdir /mnt/ace,
mkdir /mnt/axe) and then run the following...

 ncpmount -S PLATO /mnt/plato -U myuser -P mypass
 ncpmount -S ACE /mnt/ace  -U myuser -P mypass
 ncpmount -S AXE /mnt/axe -U myuser -P mypass

You can also browse the printers...

pqlist -S ACE -U myuser -P mypass
pqlist -S AXE -U myuser -P mypass

That's it! You have now full access to plato, ace and axe!

In order for these things to happen at boot, you can add the following
lines at the end of /etc/rc.d/rc.local :

 /sbin/ipx_configure --auto_interface=on --auto_primary=on
 ncpmount -S PLATO /mnt/plato -U myuser -P mypass
 ncpmount -S ACE /mnt/ace  -U myuser -P mypass
 ncpmount -S AXE /mnt/axe -U myuser -P mypass

3. Printing

Redhat comes with a convenient tool called "printconf" also easily found.

Add a new printer,  make sure it is a Novell Printer (NCP) and choose "AXE"
as your server "MATH129-LASER" as your queue and enter you full
username and password. Choose the appropriate driver. 
I chose "Lexmark Optra S 1855" and it seems to work fine. (That's specific
to the Math&Stat Department, of course.)

In order for NCP to work, you'll need Novell to be enabled (see above).

Update (October 31st 2001): you now need to add MATH-OFFICE-Q on server ACE, but the process
is the same. Please make sure you save your changes in printconf before trying to
print.

If you've chosen KDE, you should also go configure KDE to use
generic LPD for printing. (See KDE documentation.)

That's all!

You should now have you machine fully configured. We are only missing the
samba part...

4.  Samba

Under KDE, go to configure your windows shares under network
and enter your username and password. Use "acadia" as your
workgroup.

The rest is optional and might not help you at all!

Go to http://127.0.0.1:901/ under your browser (type konqueror or netscape).
Enter as root with your password...

Go to globals... enter acadia as the workgroup, enter something
convenient for your netbios name (dlemire for me), make sure
you encrypt passwords (yes), and you can enter 131.162.200.230
as the wins server (not that it will help). Don't forget to commit
your changes.

Go to password and add all of the users you want (generally just
one user will do).

Go to status and make sure that both smbd and nmbd are running.


That's it!


5. Firewall issues

It can happen that while installing Linux, you've chosen to setup the
firewall. This can cause all sorts of problems. If you can't connect
to some machines, or can't connect to your machine from outside, try this...

/sbin/ipchains --flush

You have to log on as root first ("su"). Of course, this disables
security on your machine and is very much unsafe.But then again, you can
always put the security back on later. 


