

902-542-7923
lemire@ondelette.com
http://www.ondelette.com/indexen.html

Daniel Lemire, Ph.D.

Daniel Lemire is an e-business researcher. His recent work
is on data mining, telehealth, wavelets and data thinning.

 Expérience 

2002-... Associate Researcher
E-business Research Groupe
Information Technology Institute 
National Research Council of Canada (NRC)

2001-2002 Assistant Professor
Acadia University 

  * Member of the committee on the M.Sc. program.

  * Taught 3 courses for about 200 students including an
    advanced course in Numerical Methods.

  * Acadia University is one of the best canadian university
    and generally rank first for undergraduate teaching.

1999-2001 Independent Scientific Consultant

   MedicalGate Association (2000-2001)

  Daniel Lemire served as a technology architect for Medical
  Association, a non-profit group of doctors, biologists
  and pharmacists. We successfully developed a medical records
  management system through XML descriptors (Multimedia
  Medical Format) with backward compatibility with systems
  such HPRIM. At the time, the proposed DTD was certainly
  one of the first concrete attempt at using XML for medical
  record management in France, if not the first. The project
  has since been open-sourced and is part of an ongoing
  attempt at creating an efficient XML-based medical information
  management system. It has been used in Franche-Comté and
  serves as a reference for future projects. 

   Waid/CIRA/Serveur national de radiologie (1999-2000)

  Daniel Lemire was the consulting scientist for the first
  wavelet-based image server for the "Serveur
  national de radiologie" in France
  ("National Radiology Server")
  . Serving medical images (DICOM) on the web is a major
  undertaking since the average radiologist will generate
  over 4 gigabytes of raw data per day. In 2000, Daniel
  Lemire spent part of the summer at Aix-en-Provence as
  the guest scientist for this project. The result of this
  work is known as the "waaves"
  format and it is currently in use in France for storing
  and retrieving digital radiology images and thousands
  of images are sent every day using this system.

   THEM Geophysics Inc./FalconBridge/CAMIRO (1998-2000)

  Over several years, Daniel Lemire worked with THEM Geophysics
  Inc. with funding from FalconBridge and CAMIRO (Canadian
  Mining Industry Research Organization) on improving geophysical
  data processing for the THEM system .
  The THEM system is the only Canadian airborne EM system
  for exploring rough terrains. The signal-to-noise ratio
  was improved by at least 100% using better mathematical
  modeling. The software has been used successfully in Northern
  Canada and Sudan in exploration contracts worth several
  millions of dollars.

1998-1999 Post-doctoral fellowship
Institut de génie biomédical

  Daniel Lemire got two post-doctoral fellowships: one with
  professor A.-R. LeBlanc and the other one with professor
  P. Matthieu both at the "Institut
  de génie biomédical" ("Biomedical
  Engineering Institute") and at
  the "Centre de recherche de l'Hôpital Sacré-Coeur"
  (Sacré-Coeur Hospital Research Center). He worked on data
  processing applications in a medical context (ECG, NMR,
  EMG...).

  The following contributions were made:

  * A new approach to detect myocardial ischemia (lack of
    oxygen in one's heart) was proposed .
    Myocardial ischemia is a common cause of death in North
    America and proper monitoring of the patients is important.
    The most common monitoring technique involve ECGs and
    a simple average over a small section of the heartbeat.
    We were the first to propose wavelets as a tool to measure
    ischemia. Having several perpendicular measures of the
    same physiological phenomenon typically allows one to
    improve accuracy and hence improve clinical monitoring.

  * During his post-doctoral years, Daniel Lemire contributed
    substantially to the JSci - A science API for Java project.
    Indeed, all of the processing and visualization software
    was written in Java. To this day, a large number of
    classes contributed to JSci are used in various Java
    projects through the world. Reference: http://maths.dur.ac.uk:8000/~dma3mjh/jsci/.

 Formation

1995-1998 Ph.D. thesis "Subdivision
schemes and wavelets"
Département de génie industriel et de mathématiques
École Polytechnique de Montréal
Prof. Gilles Deslauriers and Serge Dubuc
Accepted by: André Fortin and Jean-Marc Lina

  * New non-separable filters for image processing were proposed
    . It is hoped that these new filters might lead
    to image processing algorithm with reduced blocking
    artifacts.

  * New boundary-aware wavelet filters were proposed .
    This work is important for two reasons: we discovered
    a mathematically simpler approach to filter design and
    these new filters provide a new tool for engineers.
    Indeed, most wavelet filters generate (small) artifacts
    at the beginning and at the end of signals while these
    filters can be considered "perfect"
    filters with regard to the boundaries.

1994-1995 M.Sc. "A Priori Approximations
for Nonlinear Systems" 
University of Toronto
Prof. Catherine Sulem

1990-1994 B.Sc. with "High Distinction"
University of Toronto

 Contributions, Outreach and Influence

 Media

* Daniel Lemire was invited to the TV show "C'est
  mathématiques!" ("It's
  mathematics!") on "Canal
  Z" (Winter 2001) to discuss Canadian innovations in
  geophysical data processing. "Canal
  Z" is the major French TV channel in Canada featuring
  technology and science programs. "C'est
  mathématiques!" has been on the air for
  several years.

* Daniel Lemire gave an interview for the "Bulletin
  de l'AMQ" (Bulletin of the "Quebec
  Mathematical Society") on the theme
  "consulting in the industry as a mathematician"
  (Autumn 2001). The "AMQ"
  is the only major Mathematical Society in Quebec and has
  thousands of members who all receive the "Bulletin
  de l'AMQ".

 Societies

* Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)

* La Société Québécoise d'Informatique Biomédicale et de
  la Santé (SoQibs)

* Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
  (IEEE)

* Association Mathématique du Québec (AMQ)

 Referee

* Daniel Lemire has been a referee for a few international
  journals including IEEE Transactions in Medical Imaging,
  IEEE Transactions in Signal Processing and others.

* Daniel Lemire was also a scientific advice for MathSoft
  Inc. in the design of the following Mathcad extension
  packs: signal processing, image processing, and wavelet.
  Mathcad is one of the most important mathematical software
  on the market.

 International

Invited researcher by Waid Inc. (Serveur national de radiologie)
in Aix-en-Provence (France) in summer 2000.

 Web

Daniel Lemire owns his own domain name on the web "ondelette.com"
which stands for "wavelet.com".
This web site host the "Wavelet forum"
on http://www.ondelette.com/indexen.html ("ondelette"
is French for "wavelet")
and meant as a resource for researchers and students interested
in wavelets. 

 Teaching

Some courses taught recently: numerical methods, vector calculus,
algorithmics, data structures and java servlets.

 Scholarships

* FCAR (Quebec) for 2 years.

* NSERC (Canada) for 2 years

* C.D. Howe Memorial for 4 years (approximative value: 50,000$).

* Canada Scholarship for 4 years (NSERC).

* Dean's medal for B.Sc. (UofT).

* 3T0 Scholarship (UofT)

 Publications

References

Daniel Lemire, High Resolution Subdivision Schemes, Curves
and Surfaces, Saint-Malo, France, June-July 2002 (accepted
on March 2002).

References

Serge Dubuc, Daniel Lemire, Jean-Louis Merrien, Fourier analysis
of 2-point Hermite interpolatory subdivision schemes, Journal
of Fourier Analysis and Applications, Volume 7, Issue 5,
2001. 

References

Daniel Lemire, Recent mathematical advances in EM modeling
for mineral exploration, Canadian Mining Industry Research
Organization (CAMIRO), Toronto, Ontario, 2001 (invited talk). 

References

Daniel Lemire, Chantal Pharand, Jean-Claude Rajaonah, Bruno
Dubé, A.-Robert LeBlanc, Wavelet time entropy, T wave morphology
and myocardial ischemia, IEEE Transactions in Biomedical
Engineering, vol. 47, no. 7, July 2000.

References

Daniel Lemire, Intégration Web de formats propriétaires par
le Java, congrès WebTek, Québec, March 2000.

References

Gilles Deslauriers, Serge Dubuc et Daniel Lemire, Une famille
d'ondelettes biorthogonales sur l'intervalle obtenue par
un schéma d'interpolation itérative, Ann. Sci. Math. Québec
23 (1999), no.1, 37-48.

References

Daniel Lemire, Chantal Pharand, Jean-Claude Rajaonah, Bruno
Dubé, A.-Robert LeBlanc, Wavelet Time Entropy and T Wave
Morphology, CMBEC 25, London, June 1999.

References

Alain Béliveau et Daniel Lemire (1999), Géophysique, traitement
du signal et analyse numérique, congrès Géologie Québec,
gouvernement du Québec, Québec.

References

Alain Béliveau et Daniel Lemire, White paper on Image Compression
by Fast Wavelet Transform, white paper pour la société Compression
d'Images, Réseaux et Automatismes, March 1999.

References

Gilles Deslauriers, Serge Dubuc et Daniel Lemire, Interpolation
itérative et ondelettes, 66e Congrès de l'Acfas, Université
Laval, May 1998.

References

Gilles Deslauriers, Serge Dubuc et Daniel Lemire, Dérivées
de l'interpolation itérative de Lagrange et les ondelettes
b-adiques de Cohen-Daubechies-Feauveau, Rapport technique
EPM/RT-97/28, École Polytechnique de Montréal, Montréal,
April 1997.

References

Gilles Deslauriers, Serge Dubuc, 
Daniel Lemire (1997), Traitement d'images par ondelettes
non séparables, Colloque des sciences mathématiques du Québec,
UQTR, Trois-Rivières.

References

Gilles Deslauriers, Serge Dubuc, Daniel Lemire (1996), Interpolation
des moments, Colloque des sciences mathématiques du Québec
et de l'Atlantique, Université de Moncton, Moncton.
