I looked over your cv and am generally very impressed by the content.
However, I think you could improve the origanization a little bit.

Here at UNB, we have no choice: there is a "standard cv" rule that
we must follow.  You should of course ensure that UQAM does not have
something similar.

So I have never really had to think about how to organize a cv.
But consider its use for you now:  you must prove to UQAM that
you meet some broad criteria.  At UNB, this is excellence in
"dissemination of knowledge" and "research, scholarly and creative
activity" and  acceptable "service".  Everything must fit into
one of these broad areas, after a brief biographical section.
Our collective agreement spells out what kind of activities are
in each area.

For the people who must eventually assess you, you ought to
group your cv material according to the broad areas that they
will assess.

To me, the UNB rule that says that undergrad and grad education and
scholarships should be listed in the initial "biographical" area makes
a lot of sense.  Also, we usually do not put much about our activities
when listing our employment history.  That can go later.  The good
effect of this is that it keeps the bio section short.  I am not sure
that the picture is a good idea.

At UNB, service is subdivided so that grunt work that keeps the
institution afloat is separate from the work you do towards your
discipline and perhaps community.  I don't see internal committees
listed here.  At UNBSJ, you would be in big trouble due to this.
There are always a few inactive committees with impressive names.
Get on one!  There will also be some committees from hell that have
an inordinate amount of work.  Either avoid them, or be prepared to
expand in a paragraph about all the stuff that such a committee did,
if you end up on one.  The average prof's cv will have an enormous
list of committee work...and peers will be compared.  At UNB, serving
on thesis committees is internal service (unless it is your student).
Once you end up doing lots of it, you will typically just give either
an overall count or a table that
lists year, student, degree, institution, and maybe thesis title.
(Much like the NSERC forms).  But for now, the expanded form is probably
wise for you.  Also, maintaining a web forum is professional service,
as is speaking to the media.
But it is irrelevant that you control the ondelette.com domain, I think.

I think that software and patents fit in as "research output" and
would go after the publications.

At UNB, there is no section for citations in the standard CV.
I think it would be natural to put the citations after your
publication list, rather than so early in your cv.

Anyway, it looks impressive to me.  Just make it look like you are
doing more grunt work for UQAM (or that you did some for Acadia or
UNB) and organize things a little more, and I would certainly hope you
would be fine.  If not, there is no hope for anybody...

BTW: did I tell you that the people who evaluated me had no idea
what a "technical report" was?  They thought they might be some kind of
industry white paper.  Not that it matters, since both are
unrefereed and thus don't count for anything.  But it hardly
inspires confidence in the evaluation process.

-owen

